Ledger is a powerful, double-entry accounting system that is accessed from the
UNIX command-line.  This may put off some users, as there is no flashy UI,
but for those who want unparalleled reporting access to their data, there
really is no alternative.

For those just joining us, please check out the page on basic [[Terminology]],
which will help you if you ever try to read the
"source":http://github.com/jwiegley/ledger .

h1. Features

Here are some of the features of Ledger which set it apart from other
accounting systems:

* Ledger never creates or modifies your data.  Your entries are kept in a
  text file that *you maintain*, and you can rest assured, no automated tool
  will ever change that data.

* Ledger is 100% currency-agnostic.  You can store multiple currencies in any
  account, convert between them, or even pay in one currency and receive
  change in another.

* Ledger is international.  Although UTF8 support is not quite there yet,
  Ledger uses ISO format dates, attaches no meaning to the naming of
  accounts, and can accept data in either US or European decimal formats.  It
  will report currencies back to you following the manner of your own
  entries.

* Ledger uses a simple set of base commands which can be extended in
  countless ways.  You can create monthly reports, average reports, check
  account balances, reconcile accounts, keep track of capital gains on
  stocks, etc.

h1. Getting started

To get started with Ledger, you must manage a text file in Ledger’s own
textual format.  Here’s what an entry might look like:

<pre>
2006/10/15 Exxon
    Expenses:Auto:Gas         $10.00
    Liabilities:MasterCard
</pre>

The amount of data required by Ledger is minimal.  It figures out from looking
at your data what you mean by it and how you want it reported back to you.
Accounts are created as they appear; currencies are created as they’re
referenced.  Anywhere that a value can be calculated, you can leave it out --
such as the balancing @$-10.00@ in the above entry.

Ledger is a double-entry accounting tool, meaning that *all entries must
balance*.  If an entry does not balance, it will cause an error and the report
will not be generated.  Ledger is always checking the accuracies of your
entries at every run; you won’t ever run into problems with “unaccounted” sums
in an account.

h2. Mailing list

There is a "forum/mailing-list":http://groups.google.com/group/ledger-cli for
the discussion of issues pertaining to ledger.  Please join and contribute!
Google Groups also supports RSS, if you prefer that.

Or, if you’d rather read your messages over NNTP using a News Reader like
Gnus, visit the "Gmane
mirror":http://dir.gmane.org/gmane.comp.finance.ledger.general .

h2. Tips and Tricks

   [[OnReconciling]]

   Various tools at "http://joyful.com/Ledger":http://joyful.com/Ledger

h2. IRC

Usually the fastest way to get your questions answered is to visit us on IRC,
where I can usually be found most days.  We are on the server
"irc.freenode.net":irc://irc.freenode.net/ledger .  My nick is “johnw”.

h2. Visit the Wiki

There is a collaborative "Wiki":http://wiki.github.com/jwiegley/ledger for
Ledger, which I encourge you to become a part of.  As time goes by I hope to
collect know-how from the community of Ledger users so that we may all benefit
from wisdom others have gleaned from its use.  At the moment the Wiki is just
starting, but this is only the beginning.

h2. Reporting bugs

Ledger uses "org-mode":http://orgmode.org/ for bug tracking, located in the
planning branch, in a file named @TODO@.  If you encounter new bugs, please
submit them to the
"forum/mailing-list":http://groups.google.com/group/ledger-cli .  Your other
option is to just "send me an e-mail":mailto://jwiegley@gmail.com , and I will
enter a bug on your behalf.

h2. Donating CPU time

If you have a server always running that can spare some CPU cycles, consider
donating time as a "Buildbot":http://buildbot.net/trac slave.  Slaves are used
to build and verify the current trunk of the development tree on various
platforms.  By using Buildbot, jobs and their results can be performed
automatically and with no intervention.  If you are interested, please contact
me.  Many systems are still needed for complete Buildbot system coverage.

You can view "Ledger’s current buildbot status":http://newartisans.com:9090 at
any time.

h2. Getting the source

Development for Ledger is hosted here at
"GitHub":http://github.com/jwiegley/ledger/ , where you can browse the source,
or fork your own path of new development.  If you do fork, just let me know so
that I can access your changes and possibly integrate them into the next
release.

Ledger is freely available under the terms of the BSD license, and may be
downloaded as a "gzip’d
tarball":http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=112869 .

h2. Platform binaries

Several people in the Open Source community have spent time creating Ledger
distributions for specific platforms.  Below is a list of the ports I know of;
if you discover others, please let me know.  If you would like to host a
binary on this server, please send me an e-mail.

 | Windows | "http://www.assembla.com/spaces/Goldcoast/documents":http://www.assembla.com/spaces/Goldcoast/documents |
 | Debian Linux | "http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?packages=ledger":http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?packages=ledger |
 | Gentoo Linux | "http://tstotts.net/linux/ebuilds.html":http://tstotts.net/linux/ebuilds.html |

